
Child labour is defined as the regular employment of boys and girls under the age of 15 or 16. 
Attitudes toward child labour have altered dramatically since the late 18th century, when it was
 generally assumed that children should contribute to the family economy from about age seven.
 By the beginning of the 20th century most Canadian provinces had enacted labour legislation 
to restrict the employment of children.






What is child labour?

Child labour refers to work that children are too young to perform or that –
by its nature or circumstances – can be hazardous. Unlike activities that help children develop
(such as contributing to light housework or taking on a job during school holidays), 
child labour causes harm to a child’s health, safety or moral development.

In its most insidious forms, child labour can amount to slavery or practices similar to slavery, 
including the sale and trafficking of children. In some places, children may be forcibly recruited
into armed conflict, used in the production and trafficking of drugs, or offered into prostitution.

How common is child labour?

Child labour remains a persistent problem in the world today. 
The latest global estimates indicate that some 160 million children were engaged
in child labour at the beginning of 2020 – accounting for nearly 1 in 10 children globally.

Child labour is most prevalent in low-income countries, yet more than half of all child labour 
occurs in middle-income countries.


Where is child labour on the rise?

Global progress against child labour has recently stagnated:
The proportion of children in child labour remained roughly unchanged since data were collected in 2016.
Similarly, the percentage of children in hazardous work has also persisted.
But global estimates mask large variations across regions. 
In both Asia and the Pacific, and Latin America and the Caribbean, 
child labour has trended downward in percentage and absolute terms

What are the greatest risks associated with child labour?

No matter where or how it occurs, child labour restricts children from their most fundamental rights. 
Many children driven into labour are cut off from schooling and health care – often at the time they need it most.
In mining, they may be forced to work in deep underground shafts, to haul heavy loads of rock and to use toxic 
chemicals to separate minerals or precious metals from ore.

On the streets, traffic and exhaust fumes threaten children’s health and safety – as does, in extreme cases,
the risk of being drawn into illicit activities.
These are just a few of the dangers children driven into work may face. 
What’s more, the isolated nature of some forms of child labour puts them at significant risk of abuse and trafficking.


Why does child labour occur?
Children may be driven into work for various reasons.
Most often, child labour occurs when families face financial challenges or uncertainty 
– whether due to poverty, sudden illness of a caregiver, or job loss of a primary wage earner.

Migrant and refugee children – many of whom have been uprooted by conflict, disaster or poverty –
also risk being forced into work and even trafficked, especially if they are migrating alone or 
taking irregular routes with their families.

What we doing to stop child labour?


















 Case Study of Kima
 The thirteen year old eldest son in the family Kima has two sisters and two brothers 
and their grandparents in a joint family. His father is a watchman in one of government 
office and this is their main sources of income. Their standard of living is very low due to big 
family size and lack of adequate income. They do not have their own house and are living in 
a rented house. Unfortunately, one of his brother got bone marrow cancer and the family 
spent a lot of money for his treatment and that has created financial hardship. His mother is 
also sick may be because she delivered many children at young age. He narrated - “As we are 
a big family, my father’s income is not adequate to support our education, we have to take 
care of our grandparents, and we spent a lot of money for my brother’s treatment.”
 Like other children, Kima was admitted in the school at the age of 6 years. However, 
he dropped out at class VI due to the family problems. As the eldest child among the siblings 
in his family, he has to do a lot of works such as taking care of his siblings, performing 
household works etc. He did not have sufficient time to study at his home. Further, his family 
could not support his education due to lack of income. He expressed -“I am still interested to 
continue my education, if given a chance with non-formal education as a part-timer, but to 
support my family, I have to work whatever job I get.”
 He has been working at a construction site since last two years. His nature of work 
comprises of doing cement work and carrying heavy loads to his age. It is due to this work 
that he is now a school dropout. He joined his present job when he attained the age of 11 
years and he receives an amount of Rs 3000 /- per month. In his words - “I am very tired due 
to my present work as this job is very tough and harmful to my physical development.” 
Interpretation 
 The case study of Kima revealed that due to poverty he has dropped out from school 
and joined full time job at construction work to supplement his family income. Though his 
health condition was good before joining the work, he is getting shoulder pain which may be 
due to the effect of his present work. He used to get very tired and dislike his present work 
because his job is very tough and harmful to his physical development. He is interested to 
continue his education if he is given a chance through non-formal education as he is 
compelled to do some job to supplement the income of the family. 




The ten highest risk countries in 2012, ranked in decreasing order, were: Myanmar, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan, DR Congo,
 Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Burundi, Pakistan and Ethiopia. Of the major growth economies, Maplecroft ranked Philippines 25th
 riskiest, India 27th, China 36th, Vietnam 37th, Indonesia 46th, and Brazil 54th, all of them rated to involve extreme
 risks of child labour uncertainties, to corporations seeking to invest in developing world and import products 
from emerging markets.
